as we're going to vector icons now. Remember all
this kind of hassle that we have to go through
to have really crisp local images for our users.
We need to have three different files of different sizes
and we need to package them with your app and
then all the users have to download them. It's
a nightmare. Well, vector icons amazing on the
web. Amazing. On native. So I use
vector icons a lot. If it's possible, I'll
make it into an extra icon. So vector icons
are small. They use vectors, which means that
they scale automatically. You don't need to have um
several versions of the same same icon and also you
can customize them so you can change the color of
your path or you can change the color of um
the whole vector or part of it programmatically the super
handy. I used them in pretty much all of
my projects. So I so there are plenty of
resources for finding icons. One that I use quite
frequently is called flat icon. And basically there's a
bunch of free icons here. They require attribution though
. Um if you so you can use them for
personal commercial use but you have to give attribution if
you if you don't have pro license. So just
a caveat there. But if you're looking for just
uh icons projects, that's a good resource. So
, I've chosen three icons from here already and you
guessed it. We have a library for this.
So for rendering spG is we're going to use react
native SpG. So playing stds won't just work.
Maybe I can get you. Unfortunately, we do
need a library. Mhm. So let's install it
. So let's copy their, install command in your
terminal and paste it. So this one does have
native modules. So we need to also Ronnie anne
store, rebuilt, it was rebuilt android, so
see the IOS. Mhm. But it's still she's
going to stop and we start android. If you're
a react native developer, you get to be like
the, you know, the XK C D comic
where your boss is like, what are you doing
? Because your sword fighting and you feel like I'm
compiling it's the same. You're like, I'm installing
native modules. All right. So, we'll see
you back into the root directory and run IOS.
So let's have a look at the A P I
for rec Native spg and how it works. So
, to add an SVg icon, so stds generally
looks like this. So you have an spg,
it has some width and height, it has a
view box and then basically the view box tells the
spg like how to render the path and you have
various um like SVG elements, you can have a
path to circle, a group, etcetera. Now
on the web, like Suggs will look like this
with a lower case. The same the same way
we have Div and paragraph and et cetera. Um
for react native SVg. Actually, all we need
to do to convert this spg to be rendered using
react native SVg is use the SpG and Path and
such elements from here and they're super easy to find
because it's basically on the web is SVG with a
lower case and then the export will be exactly the
same thing with the capital because it's a rare component
. So to convert this into a react native version
will basically um replace these, we'll give it a
width and a height and we'll also give it a
fill color. Let's see if this is finished.
No, it's not. But I guess I can
do this anyway. So I'm going to copy this
sPG file and go back to our project and in
components. So it's up to you whether you have
one file per SVg or whether you have all spG
is in one file is completely your preference in this
case I'm going to do one file per. Sorry
, I'm going to do one file and put all
the way through these in there. So in components
, let's do a new file, call it icons
that tsx and here let's import react from react.
And let's do home icon. We act at sea
. It's an arrow function and you will return,
I'm going to paste the spG that I've just copied
in here. Now this isn't valid yet. So
I need to import spG and Path from Canadian spg
and then allow me to do is replace these with
the upper case versions. And also export this though
, I should can be used. And now the
last thing that I always do with my icons is
I give them properties for the size and the color
in this case I always want square icons which is
what we want for our bottom tabs. Um but
otherwise you could have within height separate separate but because
I know what you want to square, I'm going
to just use the size. So that's two type
icon props. So we want a size which is
optional because we're going to give it a default and
let's have it a number and color which is also
optional and it will be a string hit let's say
plus icon props into reactive C and let's restructure them
so well this size let's default to 40 and color
. That's default to teal. I will send a
tail now the size so at the top level of
the S P G you have a width and height
. So I'm going to use size for both of
them. So with size and height, size.
And then lastly I'm going to add the field color
so Phil equals color. I'm going to render it
on the homepage just to see that something is working
. So home icon. Yeah. Where is it
is he not rebuilt? Should be. Oh there
it is. I still go home icon here And
if I do size, let's do 100. It's
massive and then if I do color make it pink
, it turns to pink. So basically you can
now change this icon however you want, which is
super handy. All right, so what we actually
want to do is we want to use this icon
for our home tab. So the way we do
that move it from here and let's open our bottom
tabs. Navigator, so just have Navigator will have
a screen options prop which takes an arrow function.
Men this uh and here we have tab icon.
Okay, and then this will be a function and
then I think here let's return text. Yeah I
don't usually type this type this out live so it's
fun to find the exact ap text from. Okay
sir. Okay, cool, awesome. So this
actually works. So not that I'm surprised I shouldn't
be surprised. It works. Um Cool, so
you can see that whatever I pass in here on
the tab icon gets rendered on top so what we
really want to do is you want to get access
to what route we're in and then based on that
we want to render the correct tab. So okay
, so terribly icon so I'm not looking at the
E P. I right now, I'm just looking
at the TypeScript types just to remind me what the
actual properties are called. So this tab icon,
it knows whether it's currently focused what color should be
and what size it should be. So we said
that globally rather than within each icon which is nice
and then screen options. Okay, cool. So
this gives me root and navigation so I should get
access to the root here. Cool. And then
root name. Okay, cool. So I'll do
let's pass, let's do the root name here.
So we'll just print out this or the text root
dot name. So this is the name that we
gave each of our roots and then we can use
our route name to render the correct icon. So
we'll do use a switch statement here, but I'm
just going to keep it keep it simple with an
if if root dot name equals home, then let's
render home icon and then otherwise we'll just return the
route that name.